Add RWD challenge to layout module (#41374)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn_web_development/core/css_layout/mobile-first_challenge/index.md

---
title: "Challenge: A mobile-first layout"
short-title: "Challenge: mobile-first"
slug: Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Mobile-first_challenge
page-type: learn-module-assessment
sidebar: learnsidebar
---

> {{PreviousMenuNext("Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Test_your_skills/Responsive_design", "Learn_web_development/Core/Scripting", "Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout")}}

Reviewer: Shouldn't next be https://pr41374.review.mdn.allizom.net/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Test_your_skills

Reviewer: And at end, if I am correct.

Author: No, I haven't been including the "Test Your Skills" indexes in the previous/next links sequences. To me, it would seem really weird to do so, as if the reader has been following the sequence, they will already have met each "Test your skills" article individually.

I'd prefer not to include these indexes in the nav at all, but we decided that we wanted all pages available from the nav, so this is the compromise we ended up with.

1. Create a new folder on your computer called `mobile-first-challenge`.
2. Inside the folder, create an `index.html` file and paste the following content into it:

   ```html
   <!DOCTYPE html>
   <html lang="en-US">
     <head>
       <meta charset="utf-8" />
       <title>RWD Task</title>
       <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
       <script defer src="script.js"></script>
     </head>

     <body>
       <header>
         <div class="logo">My exciting website!</div>
         <button aria-label="Open menu">☰</button>
       </header>

       <main class="grid">
         <nav>
           <ul>
             <li><a href="#">Home</a></li>
             <li><a href="#">Blog</a></li>
             <li><a href="#">About us</a></li>
             <li><a href="#">Our history</a></li>
             <li><a href="#">Contacts</a></li>
           </ul>
         </nav>
         <article>
           <h1>An Exciting Blog Post</h1>
           <img src="images/square6.jpg" alt="placeholder" class="feature" />
           <p>

>              Veggies es bonus vobis, proinde vos postulo essum magis kohlrabi

Reviewer 2: Aside from the spellchecker fixes, similar text was replaced in another PR based on https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Code_style_guide#guidelines_for_using_placeholder_text

See https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/41408

Author: I'll use standard lorem ipsum in similar situations in the future (I only used this because I copied the content from another example), but I don't consider this important enough to fix.

             fennel kombu maize bamboo shoot green bean swiss chard seakale
             pumpkin onion chickpea gram corn pea. Brussels sprout coriander
             water chestnut gourd swiss chard wakame kohlrabi beetroot carrot
             watercress. Corn amaranth salsify bunya nuts nori azuki bean
             chickweed potato bell pepper artichoke.
           </p>

           <p>
             Gumbo beet greens corn soko endive gumbo gourd. Parsley shallot
             courgette tatsoi pea sprouts fava bean collard greens dandelion
             okra wakame tomato. Dandelion cucumber earthnut pea peanut soko
             zucchini.
           </p>

           <p>
             Nori grape silver beet broccoli kombu beet greens fava bean potato
             quandong celery. Bunya nuts black-eyed pea prairie turnip leek
             lentil turnip greens parsnip. Sea lettuce lettuce water chestnut
             eggplant winter purslane fennel azuki bean earthnut pea sierra
             leone bologi leek soko chicory celtuce parsley jícama salsify.
           </p>

           <p>
             Celery quandong swiss chard chicory earthnut pea potato. Salsify

>              taro catsear garlic gram celery bitterleaf wattle seed collard

Reviewer 2: Spellchecker flags these two if you want to remove them:

```suggestion
             taro garlic gram celery wattle seed collard
```

## Project brief

The content provided for this example is the same as the content from the previous challenge, [Fundamental layout comprehension](/en-US/docs/Learn_web_development/Core/CSS_layout/Fundamental_Layout_Comprehension), with some minor structural differences. It also has a mostly complete layout from the beginning, although as you may have noticed from checking it out, it looks terrible in a widescreen viewport!

This is because we've provided you with a mobile layout to begin with. Note how the navigation menu is accessed by pressing the "hamburger menu" icon, and can be dismissed by clicking a menu item or pressing the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key. This functionality is handled using JavaScript, and only works when the viewport is less than `800px` wide so that it doesn't interfere with the wider-screen layouts you'll be implementing.

Specifically, we want you to implement two layouts, the first one kicking in above `800px`, and the second one kicking in above `1300px`. We'll also get you to fix a couple of issues with the existing code, and implement other features besides.

### Fixing a couple of display issues

> First of all, you'll need to solve a couple of problems to get the website working correctly.

Reviewer: It feels a little odd to say "to get the website working correctly", because even though this is correct, the whole doc is about getting the website to work correctly. Maybe something like

```suggestion
First of all, you'll need to solve a couple of problems that remain in our starting template.
```

## Hints and tips

1. You don't need to edit the JavaScript to complete this challenge.
2. There are a few ways to achieve some of the tasks in the project brief, and there often isn't a single right or wrong way to do things. Try a few different approaches and see what works best. Make notes as you experiment.
3. Sometimes, a property value set for a previous layout will cause problems with subsequent layouts. Some of the skill with responsive design is knowing when to unset or override previously-set property values.

## Example

The following screenshot shows what the finished middle layout should look like:

![Finished rwd task website middle layout. A logo at the top, followed by a horizontal nav menu, followed by two columns, text content on the left and a photo gallery on the right.](rwd-task-middle.png)

The following screenshot shows what the finished widescreen layout should look like:

![Finished rwd task website widescreen layout. A logo at the top, followed by three columns, vertical nav menu on the left, text content in the center, and a photo gallery on the right.](rwd-task-widescreen.png)

<details>

> <summary>Click here to show the solution</summary>

Reviewer: Whatever words you're using here to indicate that this is a possible solution. i've just changed to "a"
```suggestion
<summary>Click here to show a solution</summary>
```

To cause the layouts to display properly in mobile browsers, you need to add a viewport `<meta>` tag inside the `<head>` of the HTML document:

```html
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" />
```

The finished CSS should look something like this:

> ```css

Reviewer 2: And the JS from L227?

> ```css

Author: I don't really want to include a live/MDN playground demo in this case, as I don't think it is very useful. You really need to run it in full screen to test the media queries.

> ```css

Reviewer 2: >I don't really want to include a live/MDN playground demo in this case, as I don't think it is very useful.

That's fine, thanks 👍🏻
